Adding Security Chapter (#86)
illinois-cs241/coursebook: security/security.tex

\item Write or Executable. This is a protection that was covered in the IPC section. A page can either be written to or executed but not both. This is to prevent buffer overflows where attackers write arbitrary code and execute with the user's permissions.
\item Firewall. The Linux kernel provides iptables as a way of deciding whether or not an incoming connection should be allowed and various other restrictions on connections. This can help with a DDOS attack.
\item AppArmor. AppArmor is a suite of operating system tools at the userspace level to restrict applications to certain operations.
\end{enumerate}

OpenBSD is an arguably better system for security.
It has many security oriented features.
We've detailed some of them.
Full list is at the link \href{https://www.openbsd.org/innovations.html}

\begin{enumerate}

> \item pledge. Pledge is a powerful command that restricts system calls. This means if you have a simple program like \keyword{cat} which only reads to and from files, one can reasonably restrict all network access, pipe access, and write access to files. This is known as the process of ``hardening'' an executable or system, giving the smallest amount of permissions to the least number of executables needed to run a system. Pledge is also useful in case one tries to perform an injection attack.

Author: I don't really know what you mean by this.

If the token matches some of the characters but not all, an attacker know that this request will take slightly longer.
It is important to balance speed an security.
We want to use a fast \keyword{memcmp} but it may not be secure.

\section{Cyber Security}

Cyber Security is arguably the most popular area of security.
More and more of our systems are hacked over the web, it is important to understand how we can protect against these attacks

\subsection{Security at the TCP Level}

\begin{enumerate}
\item Encryption. \textbf{TCP is not encrypted!} This means any data that is sent over a TCP connection is in plain text. If one needs to send encrypted data, one needs to use a higher level protocol such as HTTPs or develop their own.
\item Identity Verification. In TCP, there is no way to verify the identity of who the program is connecting to. There are no checks or federated databases in place. One just has to trust the the DNS server gave a resonable response which is almost always the incorrect answer. Apart from systems that have a approved white list or a ``secret'' connection protocol, there is little at the TCP level that one can do to stop.

> \item Syn-Ack Sequence Number. This is a security improvement. TCP features what we call sequence numbers. That means that during the SYN-SYN/ACK-ACK dance, a connection starts at a random integer. This is important because if an attacker is trying to spoof packets (pretend those packets are coming from your program) that means that the attacker must either correctly guess -- which is hard -- or be in the route that your packet takes to the destination -- much more likely. ISPs help out with the destination problem because it may send a connection through varying routers which makes it hard for an attacker to sit anywhere and be sure that they will receive your packets -- this is why security experts usually advise against using coffee shop wifi for sensitive tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item TCP Sequence Numbers. 
This is a security improvement. 
TCP features what we call sequence numbers. 
During the SYN, SYN/ACK, ACK dance, both sides of the connection start with at a random integer called the sequence number. 
This is important, because if an attacker is trying to spoof packets (pretend those packets are coming from your program) that means that the attacker must either correctly guess a number, which must be within a narrow window -- which is hard -- or be in the route that your packet takes to the destination -- much more likely. 
ISPs help out with the destination problem because it may send a connection through varying routers which makes it hard for an attacker to sit anywhere and be sure that they will receive your packets -- this is why security experts usually advise against using coffee shop WiFi (more specifically, public unsecured networks) for sensitive tasks.
```

More commonly instead of just attacking one person, they will connect to a public wifi station and poison the cache of the router -- meaning that all who are connected will get a bad IP address when requesting a domain name.
This can get into serious spoofing attacks if one tries to pretend they are a major bank.

\section{Topics}

\begin{lstlisting}
\item Security Terminology
\item Security in local C programs
\item Security in Cyber Space
\end{lstlisting}

\section{Review}

\begin{lstlisting}
\item What is a chmod statement to break only the confidentiality of your data?

\item What is a chmod statement to break only the confidentiality and availability of your data?

\item An attacked gains root access on a Linux system that you use to store private information. Does this affect confidentiality, integrity, or availability of your information, or all three?

\item Hackers bruteforce your git username and password. Who is affected?

\item Why is privilege separation useful in RPC applications?

\item Is it easier to forge a UDP or TCP packet and why? 

> \item Why are TCP sequence numbers initialized to a random number?

Author: This is a question provided by Angrave, so just c-c c-v here.
